Mudbloods and Murmurs
Now that Colin Creevey has introduced himself, he seems to be everywhere: he's constantly snapping photos of famous Harry Potter.
Ron's wand shoots out of his hand in Charms, "hitting tiny old Professor Flitwick squarely between the eyes, creating a large, throbbing green boil where it had struck" (7.2).
Oliver Wood, the captain of the Gryffindor Quidditch team, wakes Harry at the crack of dawn for Quidditch practice.
Harry is the Gryffindor Seeker – the youngest house Quidditch player in a century.
Colin Creevey rushes out with Harry so that he can watch Harry practice.
Harry sees the rest of the team: Fred and George (Beaters); Alicia Spinnet, Katie Bell, and Angelina Johnson (Chasers); and Oliver Wood (Keeper).
Oliver is clearly obsessed with winning the Quidditch Cup this year, and he has lots of new moves to teach his team.
He starts to wonder why Colin is taking so many pictures of their practice: is Colin a Slytherin spy?
Still, George points out, the Slytherins don't need to spy; they're on the field in person.
The captain of the Slytherin team, Marcus Flint, has a signed note from Professor Snape booking the Quidditch pitch so that the Slytherins can train their new Seeker.
Who is their new Seeker?
Draco Malfoy.
Of course.
It turns out that Lucius Malfoy bought everyone on the team top of the line Nimbus 2001 broomsticks – no doubt this gift encouraged Marcus Flint to accept Draco on the team.
Ron and Hermione come out to the Quidditch pitch to see what's going on.
Hermione mocks Draco: "At least no one on the Gryffindor team had to buy their way in [...] They got in on pure talent" (7.79).
Draco replies: "No one asked your opinion, you filthy little Mudblood" (7.81).
All the kids from wizarding families react incredibly strongly to this word; it's obviously really offensive.
Ron pulls out his taped-up wand and tries to curse Draco.
It backfires, though, and Ron finds himself spitting up slugs.
Harry and Hermione take Ron to the nearest adult: Hagrid, in his hut near the Forbidden Forest.
They find Professor Lockhart there, giving Hagrid advice about kelpies (water spirits) in wells.
Hagrid doesn't seem pleased.
Professor Lockhart leaves and Harry and Hermione drag Ron inside.
Hagrid's treatment suggestion is to just let Ron keep puking the slugs up: "Better out than in" (7.99).
Harry complements Hagrid on the giant pumpkins he has grown.
Hagrid admits that he's been using magic to help them along.
Harry knows that Hagrid "wasn't supposed to use magic. He had been expelled from Hogwarts in his third year, but Harry never found out why" (7.131).
Still, Harry is pretty sure that Hagrid keeps the fragments of his snapped wand hidden in an old umbrella. So, sometimes, Hagrid does a bit of magic on the sly.
Hagrid teases Harry about Ginny's crush on him; apparently, Hagrid saw Ginny near his cottage, and he thinks she was trying to get a glimpse of Harry.
That Saturday, Ron and Harry have to go to the castle to serve their detentions for the flying car thing.
Ron has to clean things for Argus Filch, Hogwarts caretaker and noted hater of students.
Harry has to help Professor Lockhart answer his fan mail.
Harry feels like he's going to die of boredom.
Suddenly, he hears a strange voice: "Come...come to me...Let me rip you...Let me tear you...Let me kill you..." (7.156).
Harry asks if Professor Lockhart heard the voice.
Professor Lockhart thinks Harry drowsed off and had a dream.
Back at their dorm, Harry tells Ron what he heard.