The Rogue Bludger
Professor Lockhart spends his Defense classes reenacting episodes from his own books.
After class one day, Hermione approaches him to ask for permission to get a Restricted book out of the library.
She pretends that "it would help [her] understand what [he says] in Gadding with Ghouls about slow-acting venoms" (10.10).
Really, though, it's Moste Potente Potions, a book with instructions to make Polyjuice Potion.

(Click the infographic to download.)

Professor Lockhart is so puffed up with Hermione's flattery that he signs the permission form immediately.
Hermione still thinks Professor Lockhart is impressive, but Ron sums up our feelings: "brainless git" (10.18).
They hurry off to the library, permission slip in hand.
The school librarian, Madam Pince, brings out Moste Potente Potions.
Harry, Ron, and Hermione carry the book to Moaning Myrtle's bathroom to start brewing.
Hermione has never seen such a complicated potion.
They'll have to steal a ton of ingredients – including a bit of the people they're trying to turn into.
It'll take about a month to finish the potion.
In the meantime, the first Quidditch game of the year – Slytherin versus Gryffindor! – is coming up.
With all of the Slytherin players on brand new, top-of-the-line brooms, the Gryffindor team is at a disadvantage.
Oliver Wood warns Harry, "It'll be down to you [...] to show them that a Seeker has to have something more than a rich father. Get to that Snitch before Malfoy or die trying [...] because we've got to win today, we've got to" (10.46).
The two teams hit the field.
It soon becomes clear that something has gone wrong with one of the Bludgers, which keeps attacking Harry.
Fred and George (the team Beaters) spend all of their time trying to protect Harry from the Bludger.
As a result, the Gryffindors are getting destroyed by the Slytherins.
They're already sixty points behind.
Wood calls a timeout.
Harry tells Fred and George, "Listen [...] with you two flying around me all the time the only way I'm going to catch the Snitch is if it flies up my sleeve. Go back to the rest of the team and let me deal with the rogue one" (10.67).
The rest of the team thinks this is a very bad idea, but Harry doesn't want to forfeit the game to wait for an investigation of the Bludger.
So Fred and George leave Harry alone as he starts hunting for the Snitch.
He has to fly increasingly complicated maneuvers to avoid the Bludger.
Draco shouts insults at Harry.
As Harry turns to look at Draco, he sees that the Snitch is hovering right over Draco's shoulder.
Draco just hasn't noticed it because he's too busy laughing at Harry's flying.
As Harry hesitates, the rogue Bludger slams into his arm, breaking it.
Through the pain, he flies straight at Malfoy to catch the Snitch.
Harry collapses to the ground with the Snitch in his good hand.
Gryffindor has won the match.
Professor Lockhart pushes his way to Harry's side to heal his arm.
Professor Lockhart is an idiot, though, so he actually turns Harry's arm into rubber.
Professor Lockhart tells Hermione to bring Harry to Madam Pomfrey, the school mediwitch.
In the Hospital Wing, Madam Pomfrey tells Harry that she'll be able to re-grow the bones in his arm, but it'll be uncomfortable – he has to spend the night in the Hospital Wing.
Ron and Hermione agree that the Polyjuice thing has become urgent; clearly, Draco must have been the one to bewitch Harry's rogue Bludger.
Harry wakes in the middle of night feeling uncomfortable as his bones re-grow.
He finds Dobby waiting by his bedside.
Then the whole story comes out: It was Dobby who bewitched Platform 9 3/4, and it was Dobby who enchanted the Bludger.
Dobby is trying to drive Harry out of Hogwarts for his own good.
Harry tells Dobby he's not going anywhere, no matter what Dobby has to say.
The sound of footsteps interrupts their conversation.
Dobby disappears and Harry pretends to be asleep.
He sees Professors Dumbledore and McGonagall levitating a body into the Hospital Wing.
It's Colin Creevey. He has been Petrified just like Mrs. Norris.
He was holding a camera, which has now been melted on the inside.
Professor Dumbledore tells Professor McGonagall that the Chamber of Secrets has now been opened – but how?