Grim Defeat
Dumbledore sends all the students to the Great Hall to spend the night.
The Professors spend the night searching the school for Black and making sure that things are secure.
No one can sleep and everyone stays up late at the world's largest slumber party, talking about Black.
Much later that night, the trio overhear Snape, Percy, and Dumbledore talking about Black too.
No one knows how Black got in, but Snape hints that he has a theory. Dumbledore seems to shut him down, though.
Things slowly go back to normal. But while the Fat Lady gets restored, the Gryffindors have to put up with her replacement: Sir Cadogan.
Percy begins following Harry around and McGonagall informs Harry about Black being after him, which he already knows, of course.
She tries to get Harry to stop going to Quidditch practice but he protests, and she finally agrees to let him practice as long as he has teacher supervision.
The Quidditch team faces a setback when they learn that they'll be playing Hufflepuff rather than Slytherin in their first match of the year. Malfoy claims that his arm is still busted and that he can't play. Right.
It's the day before the match, and Harry is late to Defense Against the Dark Arts due to Oliver Wood, who waylays him in the hall with last-minute Quidditch advice.
Unfortunately for Harry, Snape is the substitute teacher that day.
Snape proceeds to insult and infuriate the entire class, and then assigns them a crazy essay on werewolves.
Ron loses his temper, as usual, and ends up with detention.
The day of the match is very stormy and windy. Quidditch is so hard core that they play in any weather.
Harry's day gets off to a crappy start too, when Peeves wakes him up at the crack of dawn.
The team is nervous and miserable in the rain. Oliver shakes hands with the Hufflepuff team captain and Seeker, Cedric Diggory.
And the game begins.
Harry can't see on account of all the rain on his glasses, but Hermione puts a water-repelling spell on them during a time-out.
The game is intense and Harry and Cedric spy the snitch at the same time.
But as Harry goes to grab it, he feels cold and starts hearing his mother's murder again.
He starts to fall and blacks out.
When Harry comes to, he's in the infirmary, surrounded by his friends and teammates.
He learns that the Dementors crashed the game and caused him to pass out again.
Dumbledore saved Harry and ran the Dementors off. He was furious, which seems to freak everyone out nearly as much as the Dementors do.
The bad news is that the Gryffindors lost the game since Diggory grabbed the snitch before he realized Harry had fallen.
And it gets worse: Harry's broom flew over into the Whomping Willow, which ate it for lunch.
Harry might just be the unluckiest person alive.