Gryffindor versus Ravenclaw
Ron and Hermione's friendship has effectively come to an end over the seeming murder of Scabbers.
Ron is furious and upset. Harry makes like Jimmy Carter and tries to play mediator, but unlike Jimmy Carter, Harry sucks at it.
Hermione is upset that Harry acts like he's taking Ron's side and refuses to talk to either of them.
Fred and George proceed to make fun of Ron for being so upset over his stupid rat.
Harry takes his Firebolt to a team practice and it really energizes everyone.
As they head in from an awesome practice, Harry spots a huge black dog again and gets super nervous.
It's the day of the match against Ravenclaw and everyone is really excited.
Harry notices that the Ravenclaw Seeker, Cho Chang, is pretty cute.
Since the weather is nice, we can hear the commentary of Lee Jordan during the match. Lee seems better suited for stand-up comedy than ESPN, though, and McGonagall keeps yelling at him for his inappropriate comments.
After doing a lengthy product placement for the Firebolt, Lee gets down to actually covering the match.
The match is going well, but then Harry spies some pesky Dementors.
But he whips out his wand, casts a Patronus, and then catches the snitch. Go, Harry!
After the match, Harry learns that the Dementors weren't actually Dementors – it was Malfoy, Crabbe, and Goyle.
McGonagall is furious and starts shouting at them.
Harry finds this hilarious and he heads back to the tower for a victory party.
Harry tries to talk to Hermione, who's doing homework in a corner during the party, but Ron makes a loud comment about Scabbers and Hermione runs off crying.
Harry tells Ron to lay off, but Ron stubbornly refuses to apologize to her.
That night, Ron wakes everyone up by screaming.
Turns out Sirius Black was hovering over Ron with a knife.
No one knows how to respond to that (other than "Aaaahhhh!") but McGonagall barges in and starts questioning Ron.
She doesn't believe him either, but then Sir Cadogan reveals that he let Black in since he had the password written down.
McGonagall is furious and Neville confesses that he was the one who wrote the password down initially.