Snape's Grudge
After Ron's close call, the school tightens up security even more.
Ron becomes a celebrity for his near-death experience and he milks it for all it's worth, just like Tai in Clueless after her near-death experience at the mall.
Sir Cadogan is fired.
Neville receives a Howler from his grandmother, who rants about how he's shamed the family.
Harry and Ron get a note from Hagrid and they go visit him.
Hagrid shuts Ron down quickly and proceeds to talk to them about their treatment of Hermione.
He basically lets them know that he's disappointed by their behavior towards a friend.
Hagrid also tells them that Hermione is crazy stressed and busy yet still found time to help him with Buckbeak's upcoming trial, which the boys forgot about.
But later that night, Hermione overhears the boys discussing how Harry's going to sneak out for the upcoming Hogsmeade weekend.
She threatens to tell McGonagall and they get mad at her all over again.
It's Hogsmeade day and Harry is interrupted by Neville as he tries to sneak out of the castle.
Neville has been banned from the Hogsmeade trip and no one is allowed to tell him the password either; McGonagall was pretty pissed, apparently.
Then Snape shows up and rudely questions Neville and Harry over why they're loitering in the halls.
Snape is always rude, though, so that sort of goes without saying.
Finally Harry shakes off Neville and sneaks out to Hogsmeade, wearing his Invisibility Cloak.
He follows Ron around and the entire thing is less fun than they thought it would be since Harry is invisible.
But then they encounter Malfoy, Crabbe, and Goyle and Harry decides to get some revenge.
He throws mud at them and they flip out.
But then the Invisibility Cloak slips and Malfoy sees Harry's head floating there.
Malfoy runs for it, and Harry bolts back to the castle, trying to get there before Malfoy reaches Snape.
Harry flies back out of the secret passage, but Snape quickly finds him and drags him to his office for an interrogation.
Harry tries to lie and say that he's been in the castle the whole time, but Snape isn't buying it.
Snape does his patented bad-cop routine and also insults Harry's dad, which sets Harry off.
But Snape reveals that Dumbledore hasn't really told Harry the entire truth about his dad and his connection to Snape.
To make matters worse, Snape then finds the Marauder's Map, which starts displaying insults towards him.
But Lupin suddenly appears and breaks up the interrogation.
Ron also comes flying in to corroborate Harry's story and Lupin leads them off.
Harry's relief is very short-lived, though.
Lupin confiscates the Map, saying that he knows what it is, and he shames Harry about his reckless behavior.
The boys are chastened and head back to the Common Room, where they find a tearful Hermione.
Hagrid lost his case and Buckbeak is going to be executed.