Cat, Rat, and Dog
They all stand still in shock.
But then Scabbers starts squirming even more and he finally breaks free from Ron's grasp and makes a run for it.
We didn't think Ron was that bad of a pet owner. Come on, Scabbers.
Suddenly Crookshanks appears and chases after Scabbers.
If you were wondering when the "Dog" part of the chapter title was coming into play, wonder no more.
A gigantic black dog rushes out and jumps, knocking over Harry.
Then the dog grabs Ron, who's holding Scabbers, and drags them off.
The group is next to the Whomping Willow, which begins to live up to its name and wallops Harry and Hermione.
The giant dog and Ron disappear through a hole in the tree's roots.
Hermione and Harry try to follow, with no success.
But then Crookshanks darts out and hits a knob, which makes the tree freeze.
Harry and Hermione gather their courage and race down the tunnel after Ron.
They finally emerge in a creepy old house, which Hermione identifies as the Shrieking Shack.
They creep upstairs, where they hear voices.
The two grab their wands and burst into the room.
Ron is lying there with a broken leg, and Crookshanks, and chilling out on a bed.

(Click the infographic to download.)

Ron has some disturbing news for his rescue party, though: "He's the dog [...] he's an Animagus [....]" (17.72). What?
Just then a filthy man emerges from the shadows: it's either a vampire or Sirius Black.
OK, it's totally Sirius Black (who's doing a fantastic impression of a vampire. And not one of those sparkling, hot Twilight vampires either).
"The waxy skin was stretched so tightly over the bones of his face, it looked like a skull" (17.74). Yikes.
Black disarms Hermione and Harry with Ron's wand and thanks them for stopping by. No, really.
Harry loses it and goes for Black, but Hermione and Ron yank him back.
Ron yells that Black will have to kill all three of them.
Harry snaps, though, and jumps Black, who fights Harry off and starts to choke him.
Hermione then kicks Black and Ron joins in, too, forming a sort of dog pile.
Harry gets their wands back and he aims his at Black – it's a moment of truth.
Harry wants to kills him, but he freezes.
Black tells Harry to listen to the whole story.
Suddenly, they hear footsteps and Hermione screams for help.
Professor Lupin bursts into the room and stares at Black.
Lupin starts speaking, but he makes no sense at all.
He asks Sirius where "he" is and then says "unless you switched [...] without telling me?" (17.128).
Lupin then helps Black up and gives him a huge hug.
This time, Hermione loses it and starts screaming at Lupin.
She shouts that she trusted him and has covered for him, when he's been in league with Black this whole time.
Lupin asks her to calm down but she shouts that Lupin is a werewolf.
And not like Jacob in Twilight, either. Just saying.
Hermione figured out the truth after Snape assigned the werewolf essay. Oh that Snape, so sneaky.
Now all the kids start yelling at the two adults, who beg the lot to shut up so they can explain things.
Lupin insists that he only learned the truth about Sirius tonight, when he saw someone who shouldn't be alive on the Marauder's Map.
Sirius and Lupin then drop the bombshell: Ron's rat Scabbers is really Peter Pettigrew.
What?!